SQL --> Structured Query Language
Data Types:
1. Char
2. Varchar2
3. Date
4. Number
5. Long
6. Raw
7. Long Raw
8. LOB
9. CLOB
10. BLOB
11. BFILE

The first 4 data types are very important and regularly used ones.

Char Data type:
Char data type is used when fixed length character string is required.
It can store alphanumeric values.
The maximum size of char data type is 2000 bytes.
Data should enter in single quotes.
If the user enters a value shorter than the specified length then the database adds blank-pads to the fixed length.
In case, if the user enters a value larger than the specified length then the database would return an error.

Varchar2 Data type:
The varchar2 data type supports a variable length character string.
It also stores alphanumeric values.
The maximum size of char data type is 4000 bytes.
Data should enter in single quotes.
It occupies only that space for which the data is supplied.
Using varchar2 saves disk space when compared to char.
In case, if the user enters a value larger than the specified length then the database would return an error.

Number Data type:
It stores zero, positive and negative fixed and floating point numbers.
The general declaration is
Number (P, S)
P -> It specifies the precision, i.e., the total number of digits (1 to 38).
S -> It specifies the scale, i.e., the number of digits to the right of the decimal point, can range from -84 to 127.

Date Data type:
It is used to store DATE and TIME information.
It allocates fixed length of 7 bytes each for century, year, month, day, hour, minute and second.
The default date format is “dd-mon-yy” or “dd-mon-yyyy”.
The date range provided by oracle is January 1, 4712 BC to December 31, 4712 AD.

Timestamp Data type:
It is an extension of the DATE data type.
It stores the data in the form of century, year, month, date, hour, minute and second.

Long data type:
This data type stores variable length character strings.
It is used to store very lengthy text strings.
The maximum size is 2 GB.
The length of long values may be limited by the memory available on the computer.

Note: 
-> A single table can contain only one long column.
-> Objects types cannot be created on long column Attribute.
-> Long columns cannot appear in where clauses or in Integrity constraints.
-> Indexes cannot be created on long columns.
-> Long can be Returned through a function, but not through a stored procedure.
-> Stored procedures cannot accept long data as arguments.
-> It can be declared in a Pl/Sql unit but cannot be referenced in SQL.

Applications of SQL:
DDL {Data Definition Language}
DML {Data Manipulation Language}
DCL {Data Control Language}

Basics of SQL Tables:
A table is a database object which is comprised of rows and columns in SQL
Can also be defined as a collection of related data held in a table format.

Some of The Most Important SQL Commands
SELECT - extracts data from a database
UPDATE - updates data in a database
DELETE - deletes data from a database
INSERT INTO - inserts new data into a database
CREATE DATABASE - creates a new database
ALTER DATABASE - modifies a database
CREATE TABLE - creates a new table
ALTER TABLE - modifies a table
DROP TABLE - deletes a table
CREATE INDEX - creates an index (search key)
DROP INDEX - deletes an index

DRL (Data Retrieval Language):
SELECT
DDL (Data Definition Language):
CREATE
ALTER
DROP
TRUNCATE
RENAME
DML (Data Manipulation Language):
INSERT
DELETE
UPDATE
MERGE
TCL (Transaction Control Language):
COMMIT
ROLLBACK
SAVEPOINT
DCL (Data Control Language):
GRANT
REVOKE
